then the Lord spoke to Moses this shall
be the law of the leper for the day of
his cleansing he shall be brought to the
priest and the priest shall go out of
the camp and the priest shall examine
him and indeed if the leprosy is healed
in the leper then the priest shall
command to take for him who is to be
cleansed to living and clean birds cedar
wood scarlet and hyssop and the priest
shall command that one of the birds be
killed in an earthen vessel over running
water as for the living bird he shall
take it the cedar wood and the scarlet
and the hyssop and dipped them and the
living bird in the blood of the bird
that was killed over the running water
and he shall sprinkle it seven times on
him who is to be cleansed from the
leprosy and shall pronounce him clean
and shall let the living bird loose in
the open field he who is to be cleansed
shall wash his clothes shave off all his
hair and wash himself in water that he
may be clean after that he shall come
into the camp and shall stay outside his
tent seven days but on the seventh day
he shall shave all the hair off his head
and his beard and his eyebrows all his
hair he shall
shave off he shall wash his clothes and
wash his body in water and he shall be
clean and on the eighth day he shall
take two male lambs without blemish one
ewe lamb of the first year without
blemish three tenths of an ephah of fine
flour mixed with oil as a grain offering
and one log of oil then the priest who
makes him clean shall present the man
who is to be made clean and those things
before the Lord of the door of the
tabernacle of meeting and the priest
shall take one male lamb and offer it as
a trespass offering and the log of oil
and waved them as a wave offering before
the Lord then he shall kill the lamb in
the place where he kills the sin
offering and the burnt offering in a
holy place for us the sin offering is
the priests so is the trespass offering
it is most holy the priests shall take
some of the blood of the trespass
offering and the priests shall put it on
the tip of the right ear of him who is
to be cleansed on the thumb of his right
hand and on the big toe of his right
foot and the priest shall take some of
the log of oil and pour it into the palm
of his own
and then the priest shall dip his right
finger in the oil that is in his left
hand and shall sprinkle some of the oil
with his finger seven times before the
Lord and of the rest of the oil in his
hand the priest shall put some on the
tip of the right ear of him who is to be
cleansed on the thumb of his right hand
and on the big toe of his right foot on
the blood of the trespass offering the
rest of the oil that is in the priests
hand he shall put on the head of him who
is to be cleansed so the priest shall
make atonement for him before the Lord
then the priest shall offer the sin
offering and make atonement for him who
is to be cleansed from his uncleanness
afterward he shall kill the burnt
offering and the priest shall offer the
burnt offering and the grain offering on
the altar so the priest shall make
atonement for him and he shall be clean
but if he is poor and cannot afford it
then he shall take one male lamb as a
trespass offering to be waived to make a
tournament for him one tenth of an ephah
of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain
offering a log of oil and two
turtledoves or two young pigeons such as
he is able to afford one shall be a sin
offering and the other a burnt offering
he shall bring them to the priest on the
eighth day for his cleansing to the door
of the tabernacle of meeting before the
Lord
and the priest shall take the lam of the
trespass offering and the log of oil and
the priest shall wave them as a wave
offering before the Lord then he shall
kill the Lamb of the trespass offering
and the priest shall take some of the
blood of the trespass offering and put
it on the tip of the right ear of him
who is to be cleansed on the thumb of
his right hand and on the big toe of his
right foot and the priests will pour
some of the oil into the palm of his own
left hand then the priest shall sprinkle
with his right finger some of the oil
that is in his left hand seven times
before the Lord and the priest shall put
some of the oil that is in his hand on
the tip of the right ear of him who is
to be cleansed on the thumb of the right
hand and on the big toe of his right
foot on the place of the blood of the
trespass offering the rest of the oil
that is in the priests hand he shall put
on the head of him who is to be cleansed
to make atonement for him before the
Lord and he shall offer one of the
turtle doves or young pigeons such as he
can afford such as he is able to afford
the one as a sin offering and the other
as a burnt offering with the grain
offering so the priest shall make
atonement for him who is to be cleanse
before the Lord this is the law for one
who had a leprous saw who cannot afford
the usual cleansing and the Lord spoke
to Moses and Aaron when you have come
into the land of
which I give you as a possession and I
put the leprous plague in a house in the
land of your possession
and he who owns the house comes and
tells the priest saying it seems to me
that there is some plague in the house
then the priests shove command that they
empty the house before the priest goes
into it to examine the plague that all
that is in the house may not be made
unclean and afterward the priest shall
go in to examine the house and he shall
examine the plague and indeed if the
plague is on the walls of the house with
ingrained streaks greenish or reddish
which appear to be deep in the wall then
the priest shall go out of the house to
the door of the house and shut up the
house seven days and the priest shall
come again on the seventh day and look
and indeed if the plague has spread on
the walls of the house then the priest
shall command that they take away the
stones in which is the plague and they
shall cast them into an unclean place
outside the city and he shall cause the
house to be scraped inside all around
and the dust that they scrape off they
shall pour out in an unclean place
outside the city then they shall take
other stones and put them in the place
of those stones and he shall take other
mortar and plaster the house now if the
plague comes back and breaks out in the
house after he has taken away the stones
after he has scraped the house and after
it is plastered then the priest shall
come and look and indeed if the plague
have spread in the house it is an active
leprosy in the house it is ugly
and he shall break down the house its
stones its timber and all the plaster of
the house and he shall carry them
outside the city to an unclean place
moreover he who goes into the house at
all while it is shut up shall be unclean
until evening and he who lies down in
the house shall wash his clothes and he
who eats in the house shall wash his
clothes but if the priest comes in and
examines it and indeed the plague has
not spread in the house after the house
was plastered then the priest shall
pronounce the house clean because the
plague is healed and he shall take to
cleanse the house to birds cedar wood
scarlet and hyssop then he shall kill
one of the birds in an earthen vessel of
a running water and he shall take the
seed award the hiss of the scarlet and
the living bird and dip them in the
blood of the slain bird and in the
running water and sprinkle the house
seven times and he shall cleanse the
house with the blood of the bird and the
running water and the living bird with
the cedar wood the hyssop and the
scarlet then he shall let the living
bird loose outside the city in the open
field and make atonement for the house
and it shall be cleaned this is the law
for any leprous or and scale for the
leprosy of a garment and of a house for
a swelling and a scab and a bright spot
to teach when it is unclean and when it
is clean this is the law of
[Music]
you